CARATOS MULTI-MARKET CONNECTOR ARCHITECTURE
Version: MVP 0.7 — 2026-09-09

1. PRODUCT BOUNDARY

CaratOS Core is industry-neutral:
  AI CRM + conversations + customer/account directory
  AI-ready catalogue
  attendance
  data/import/reconciliation
  integrations and audit

Industry packs change vocabulary, custom fields, qualification prompts,
pipelines and navigation. They do not fork the application or create a separate
database schema per industry. Eclat remains the jewellery pack with its current
features and credentials unchanged.

2. CONNECTOR TRUST BOUNDARY

Customer network                     CaratOS cloud

BUSY / Tally / Gati / ERP
        |
        v
CaratOS Connect Agent  -- HTTPS -->  existing /imports pipeline
  - read-only source login             - agent token resolves tenant
  - explicit profile                   - field validation
  - local discovery/preview             - organisation/store scoping
  - canonical CSV                       - idempotent persistence
  - retry-safe local state              - ImportBatch reconciliation
  - source descriptor fingerprint       - descriptor pin + target-store receipt

The cloud never connects into a customer's LAN. The agent is a machine
principal, not a head-office user. Its token is revocable per installation and
cannot name another organisation in the request.

Machine authentication is read-only. Liveness changes only through an awaited
explicit heartbeat. Heartbeats carry their request-entry time and update only
when that observation is newer, so a delayed failure cannot overwrite a later
healthy beat and a preview cannot make an offline agent appear connected.

Every machine-started import is represented by a leased receipt. Each business
row is written behind the same token/config/lease fence; final receipt state and
the machine audit identity commit together. A replay returns the settled receipt
without duplicating the audit event. A worker stopped by a token/config change
closes its still-owned receipt as failed with truthful partial counters; a worker
that has lost the lease cannot close a receipt reclaimed by another worker.

An enrolment is pinned immediately before its first accepted live import to a
SHA-256 hash of the reviewed source connection descriptor (BUSY path, sanitized
ODBC DSN, or Tally URL + company label). Preview/dry-run remains state-free.
Canonical IDs carry a 128-bit prefix from that hash, so a re-enrolment for the
same descriptor remains stable and a repointed token is refused before business
rows are written. This is not a content fingerprint: replacing a database at
the same descriptor requires a new enrolment and review.

Live sync also requires the exact local profile and source-descriptor SHA-256
values to be approved in the agent's head-office configuration. A local preview prints both review hashes but
masks every customer, identifier, date and commercial value unless the on-site
operator explicitly passes --show-values. Server warnings, invalid rows,
ambiguous matches, incomplete upload acknowledgements and skipped rows all stop
the run without advancing the checkpoint.

configRevision is a server-generated recovery sync generation, not merely a
display version. A caller cannot choose it. Replacing approved configuration
creates a fresh revision, checkpoint and run receipt for every entity, allowing
an unchanged on-premise snapshot to be replayed after a database restore/PITR
while refusing an in-flight worker that started under an older configuration.
Accepted legacy-sync watermarks are persisted with one monotonic database
upsert, so an older transaction that commits late cannot regress either the
watermark or the accepted run receipt.

3. REPOSITORY LAYOUT

connectors/connect-agent/
  caratos_connect/
    cli.py          discover / preview / dry-run / sync commands
    profile.py      profile validation + SELECT-only SQL guard
    sources.py      ODBC, password-protected Access/BUSY and Tally XML readers
    mapping.py      candidate-column mapping, filters and source ID namespace
    client.py       narrow authenticated CaratOS upload/heartbeat client
    runner.py       extraction, reconciliation counters and retry orchestration
    state.py        accepted checkpoints plus a crash-safe pending upload UUID
  profiles/
    busy-bds-starter.json
    tally-prime-starter.json
    gati-sjep-discovery.json
    generic-odbc-template.json
  tests/
  setup_agent.ps1
  install_task.ps1
  run_scheduled_sync.ps1
  requirements-lock.txt
  profile.schema.json
  README.md

The old specialised agents have explicit boundaries:
  synceclatcaratsense/ = Eclat's proven full Gati/APRS-SJEP adapter
  connectors/busy-agent/ = retired reference; its entry point and installer
                           fail closed and must not be used

The unified Connect agent is the only BUSY setup path. Specialised adapters
continue only where their deeper mappings have already been reconciled, such as
Eclat's Gati/APRS-SJEP sync.

4. STARTER CAPABILITY

BUSY
  Reads a private temporary copy of one password-protected .bds file.
  Starter profile: Master1 debtor/customer names and item masters.
  Ashish Textile's working implementation informed the Master1/Tran1/Tran2
  approach, but its dyed/grey, rack, purchase and voucher rules were NOT copied
  into the universal product; those are client-specific.

TallyPrime
  Uses the local Tally XML-over-HTTP export service.
  Starter profile: Sundry Debtor ledgers and Stock Item masters.
  GUID is the only starter identity; mutable ALTERID/name fallbacks are refused.
  Tally must be running with the company loaded and the HTTP server enabled.
  Live payload preview remains mandatory.

Gati / APRS-SJEP
  Eclat uses the existing deep adapter. A new installation begins with ODBC
  discovery; mappings are promoted into a reviewed client profile only after
  source counts and samples are reconciled.
  The legacy profile hash includes the actual mapper-script content. Any code
  change therefore needs a new masked dry-run and head-office approval even if
  a developer forgot to update a manual generation label.
  Mapped and raw checkpoints are namespaced by profile, source, server config
  and backend generation. Header, child, summary and lookup-only timestamps are
  carried into the result so dependent changes advance the correct checkpoint.
  State writes are atomic, all sync/media/website entry points share one OS lock,
  and a mid-cycle config change is latched so every upload path stops.
  The package ships no production backend or website-feed default. Networked
  commands require the configured target to equal a separately named target
  approved during interactive configuration. Backend and feed redirects are
  refused. Older installations fail closed until step 2 is rerun; an update
  never modifies the real local credential file.

Other market software
  Any source with an ODBC driver can be discovered. Clone the generic profile,
  add one read-only SELECT per supported canonical entity, and declare every
  field mapping explicitly. CSV/XLSX remains the fallback where no database/API
  access exists. PDF/DOC files go to the private knowledge library, not row import.

File-import safety boundary
  CSV must be valid UTF-8 and XLSX archives are inspected before parsing. The
  request, mapping and string sizes are bounded; XLSX source material is capped
  at 200,000 cells and rejects formulas, spreadsheet errors, non-finite numbers,
  control characters, unsafe ZIP paths and expansion bombs. Imports are still
  foreground MVP requests; large background/chunked ingestion is not claimed.

5. SAFE GENERIC DATA SET

Starter automated entities:
  customers/accounts
  products/items
  stores/branches (reviewed ODBC profiles)

Not automatically generic:
  stock balances
  invoices/sales/returns
  payments and accounting ledgers
  suppliers
  manufacturing/work orders

Those need per-client mapping because voucher signs, cancellation status,
units, fiscal periods, branch allocation and source-of-truth rules vary. The
framework can carry them later, but the MVP must not infer them.

The legacy /sync surface is reserved for an enabled, organisation-wide Gati
machine agent. A human JWT is refused for ingestion, and every request must
echo the approved profile id, profile hash, source-instance hash and current
server configRevision. The backend checks all four and atomically pins the
first source before a domain write. Destructive purge/reset routes remain
human-only. Store-bound Gati and every BUSY/Tally/ODBC token are refused there;
those sources use the canonical master-data import endpoints only.

The MVP is upsert-only and treats one source as owner of the master fields it
supplies. Multi-writer fields and source-side deletion detection require
SourceLink, snapshot manifests and per-field conflict policy before enablement.
The generic snapshot cap is 5,000 rows/7 MiB; larger installations require
deterministic, reviewed pagination.

Party, Product and Store importBatchId records creation provenance only. A
later accepted update intentionally does not rewrite that field, so the current
schema cannot answer "which connector run last changed this row". Do not infer
update history from importBatchId; add a SourceLink/import-mutation ledger before
that claim or before enabling multi-writer ownership.

6. CLIENT DELIVERY WORKFLOW

Day 1 — discover
  Create the package-local Python runtime with setup_agent.ps1 and the exact
  dependency lock (or a reviewed offline wheelhouse), then run doctor using the
  same Python architecture that will execute the task.
  Install a read-only source login.
  Enrol a source-specific CaratOS agent.
  Run discovery locally; no customer values are uploaded.

Day 2 — map and reconcile
  Copy the closest starter profile.
  Add candidate columns and SELECT-only queries.
  Run masked preview and compare source counts with the client.
  If an entity is genuinely allowed to contain no records, set allowEmpty=true
  only after this has been reviewed; empty and fully filtered entities otherwise
  fail scheduled-task preflight.
  Copy the printed profileHash and sourceInstanceHash into the agent's approved
  configuration. Live sync remains locked until both exact values are approved.

Day 3 — controlled first sync
  Run dry-run, then one manual sync.
  Check ImportBatch totals and rejected rows.
  Confirm source IDs are namespaced and repeat sync produces updates/skips,
  not duplicate records.
  Confirm the target-store receipt, descriptor pin and worker-lease recovery.

After approval
  Store connector secrets with Windows DPAPI as the same least-privilege user
  that will own the task. install_task.ps1 performs another zero-write dry-run,
  registers no token/DSN/password in Task Scheduler, writes rotating redacted
  logs, and leaves the task disabled unless explicitly enabled.
  An interactive-logon task is the intentional MVP trade-off for user-bound
  DPAPI; an unattended service account needs a separately provisioned vault.
  Add deeper entities one at a time with fixture and live reconciliation tests.

Pre-deploy database gate
  Before applying migration 20260908133000_connect_agent_safety to any existing
  environment, run this read-only query. The migration must stop for manual
  investigation if it returns any row; never auto-merge historical customers.

  SELECT "organisationId", "code", COUNT(*)
  FROM "Party"
  WHERE "code" ~ '^(busy|tally|odbc|gati):[a-f0-9]{32}:.+$'
  GROUP BY "organisationId", "code"
  HAVING COUNT(*) > 1;

  Zero-to-current migration proves schema construction only. The same preflight
  must be run separately on staging and production data before deployment.

7. AGENT DIVISION

CODEX OWNS
  connectors/**
  backend/src/integration/**
  backend/src/sync/** and the specialised Gati runtime hardening
  connector/import/sync tests and this architecture

CLAUDE OWNS
  backend/src/config/industry-packs/** and tenant-config product behaviour
  signup/onboarding/navigation and industry-specific presentation labels
  its dedicated product-layer tests

Neither agent edits the other's folders. Shared schema/package changes require
a written request first. Attendance/catalogue inference internals and Eclat
credentials are held unchanged.

8. CURRENT VERIFICATION CLAIM

The generic runtime, mapping, SQL guard, Tally XML parser and retry state are
fixture-tested. Backend registry/import integration is tested against a migrated
disposable database. A connector becomes LIVE VERIFIED only after discovery and
preview against that client's actual software installation. Code availability
must never be presented as client-data verification.

Settled local verification on 2026-09-08:
  Connect Agent Python tests: 65 passed; package-local dependencies are consistent.
  Legacy Gati adapter and target-safety tests: 45 passed; SigV4 vectors: 15 passed.
  Connector/import/sync backend tests: 145 passed across 16 suites.
  Full backend e2e: 62 suites passed, 1 skipped; 809 tests passed, 6 skipped,
  0 failed. The skipped suite is the held live jewellery-inference service.
  Disposable database: 72 migrations applied from zero, seeded, then dropped.
  Backend TypeScript/build/Prisma validation: clean.
  Frontend TypeScript and Next production build: clean. Repository-wide frontend
  lint still has 26 pre-existing React-compiler errors outside this connector lane.
  Targeted connector/sync lint: 0 errors; warnings are primarily
  pre-existing explicit-any debt in the legacy sync service and its tests.
  Windows setup rehearsal: isolated Python 3.11 (64-bit), pyodbc and requests
  installed; Access and SQL Server ODBC drivers visible to that exact runtime.

Still intentionally not claimed as live:
  BUSY needs a read-only preview and reconciliation against the client's actual
  .bds backup/copy workflow and installed Access driver.
  Tally needs a preview against the exact loaded company and enabled XML port.
  Gati/other ODBC profiles need client schema discovery and reviewed mappings.
  Transactions, stock, vouchers and payments remain disabled until client rules
  are reconciled; only neutral master data is generic today.
